Another important thing in data science is to use the proper
naming and wording of different data parts when you are
communicating with other data scientists, and this is important
to avoid communication confusion.
Let's take a simple example with a minimal dataset. Let's assume that you have
the following table that has three rows and four columns.
I am not counting the ID column.
It stores some customer account information such as age,
gender, bank account number, and salary.
The values on the horizontal axis are called rows or instances or observations.
These words are used interchangeably.
We call them instances since each one is a single instance of the
domain we are describing, and we call them observations since each
instance is a single observation that we observe. And the values in
the vertical axis are called columns.
Up to now, this is simple and intuitive.
However, sometimes when we do our data analysis,
we find out there are some columns that we need to remove for different reason,
for example if they are highly correlated or just useless.
More on this later. One column that's most likely to be useless is the bank
account number since it is just a randomly generated number and doesn't
tell us something special about the customer.
Now we have removed the bank account column.
As you can see, it is grayed out.
Let's see how this would affect how we name things.
As you can see, now age, gender, and salary are called features or
dimensions or attributes. The reason why we removed the account number
is that the account number doesn't represent something special or a
specific trait about the client.
In this case,
we say that this dataset has three dimensions or dimensionality of 3.
Why? Because we have three features.